examples/gctl/hello-world/README.md, before:

## Hello World K8s controller

- This is a K8s controller that imports metac as library
  - In other words, this uses inline hooks than webhooks
- Controller's K8s dependencies is configured in a config file
  - Refer: config/config.yaml
- Controller business logic is implemented in Go
  - Refer: cmd/main.go
  - K8s is completely abstracted from this logic
  - Logic is implemented in respective reconcile functions
    - A Pod gets created via sync inline hook
    - This Pod gets deleted via finalize inline hook
- Docker image includes the binary as well as its config file
  - Refer: Dockerfile
- Controller is deployed as a single StatefulSet
  - No need of separate metac binary since metac is used as a library
  - Refer: helloworld-operator.yaml

### Steps

```sh
# workstation needs to have Docker
# use kind to create a k8s cluster
#
# Refer: https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/local-registry/
sudo ./kind-with-registry.sh

# cat $HOME/.kube/config
# connect to kind cluster
sudo kubectl cluster-info --context kind-kind

# debugging info if required
#
# Kubernetes master is running at https://127.0.0.1:32774
#
# KubeDNS is running at:
# https://127.0.0.1:32774/api/v1/namespaces/# kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
#
# To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use
#'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
```

```sh
# workstation needs to have Docker
make image

# tag the image to use the local registry
sudo docker tag hello-world:latest localhost:5000/hello-world:latest

# push to local registry configured to be used by kind
sudo docker push localhost:5000/hello-world:latest
```

```sh
# install namespace, rbac, crds & operator
sudo kubectl apply -f helloworld-ns.yaml
sudo kubectl apply -f helloworld-rbac-crd.yaml
sudo kubectl apply -f helloworld-operator.yaml

# verify if above were installed properly
sudo kubectl get ns
sudo kubectl get crd
sudo kubectl get sts -n hello-world
sudo kubectl describe po -n hello-world
sudo kubectl get po -n hello-world
sudo kubectl logs -n hello-world hello-world-0
```

### Test

```sh
# create the helloworld custom resource
sudo kubectl apply -f helloworld.yaml

# verify creation of Pod
sudo kubectl get pods -n hello-world

# delete helloworld custom resource
sudo kubectl delete -f helloworld.yaml

# verify deletion of Pod
sudo kubectl get pods -n hello-world

# verify deletion of helloworld
sudo kubectl get helloworlds -n hello-world
```

### Cleanup

```sh
sudo kubectl delete -f helloworld-operator.yaml
sudo kubectl delete -f helloworld-rbac-crd.yaml
sudo kubectl delete -f helloworld-ns.yaml
sudo kind delete cluster
```

Commit message:

chore(examples): add dontpanic controller (#121)
This commit showcases how metac controller behaves when CRD
is not applied against the k8s cluster but the controller
tries to use an instance of this CRD.

It is expected that the controller should not panic immediately
& should provide root cause of the error. This is helpful since
there can be cases where a CRD is missing but controllers try to
use their instances without above knowledge.

Signed-off-by: AmitKumarDas <amit.das@mayadata.io>

examples/gctl/hello-world/README.md, after:

## Hello World kubernetes controller

- This is a k8s controller that imports metac as library
  - This enables use of inline hooks instead of webhooks
- Controller's k8s resources are configured in a config file
  - Refer: config/config.yaml
- Controller business logic is implemented in Go
  - Refer: cmd/main.go
  - Kubernetes client libraries are completely abstracted from this logic
  - Logic is implemented in respective reconcile functions
    - A Pod gets created via sync inline hook
    - This Pod gets deleted via finalize inline hook
- Docker image includes the binary as well as its config file
  - Refer: Dockerfile
- Controller is deployed as a single StatefulSet
  - No need of separate metac binary since metac is imported as a library
  - Refer: helloworld-operator.yaml

### Steps

```sh
# workstation needs to have Docker
# use kind to create a k8s cluster
#
# Refer: https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/local-registry/
sudo ./kind-with-registry.sh

# cat $HOME/.kube/config
# connect to kind cluster
sudo kubectl cluster-info --context kind-kind

# debugging info if required
#
# Kubernetes master is running at https://127.0.0.1:32774
#
# KubeDNS is running at:
# https://127.0.0.1:32774/api/v1/namespaces/# kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy
#
# To further debug and diagnose cluster problems, use
#'kubectl cluster-info dump'.
```

```sh
# NOTE:
# - Docker daemon always runs as a root user
#   - sudo may not be required depending on individual confgurations
#   - sudo is needed if docker group is not configured
# - KIND runs entirely as containers
#   - Hence, all kubectl commands might need to used with sudo
```

```sh
# workstation needs to have Docker
make image

# tag the image to use the local registry
sudo docker tag hello-world:latest localhost:5000/hello-world:latest

# push to local registry configured to be used by kind
sudo docker push localhost:5000/hello-world:latest
```

```sh
# install namespace, rbac, crds & operator
sudo kubectl apply -f helloworld-ns.yaml
sudo kubectl apply -f helloworld-rbac-crd.yaml
sudo kubectl apply -f helloworld-operator.yaml

# verify if above were installed properly
sudo kubectl get ns
sudo kubectl get crd
sudo kubectl get sts -n hello-world
sudo kubectl describe po -n hello-world
sudo kubectl get po -n hello-world
sudo kubectl logs -n hello-world hello-world-0
```

### Test

```sh
# create the helloworld custom resource
sudo kubectl apply -f helloworld.yaml

# verify creation of Pod
sudo kubectl get pods -n hello-world

# delete helloworld custom resource
sudo kubectl delete -f helloworld.yaml

# verify deletion of Pod
sudo kubectl get pods -n hello-world

# verify deletion of helloworld
sudo kubectl get helloworlds -n hello-world
```

### Cleanup

```sh
sudo kubectl delete -f helloworld-operator.yaml
sudo kubectl delete -f helloworld-rbac-crd.yaml
sudo kubectl delete -f helloworld-ns.yaml
sudo kind delete cluster
```
