CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to Contribute

We'd love to accept your patches and contributions to this project. There are just a few small guidelines you need to follow.

## Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a Contributor License Agreement. You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution; this simply gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as part of the project. Head over to <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see your current agreements on file or to sign a new one.

You generally only need to submit a CLA once, so if you've already submitted one (even if it was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it again.

## Code Reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult
[GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more information on using pull requests.

## Contributor Guide

Aside from the above administrative requirements, you can find more
technical details about project internals in the
[contributor guide](https://metacontroller.app/contrib/).

Commit message:

docs(contribution guide): Add requirements about commit and PR naming conventions
Signed-off-by: grzesuav <grzesuav@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to Contribute

We'd love to accept your patches and contributions to this project. There are just a few small guidelines you need to follow.

## Contributor License Agreement

Contributions to this project must be accompanied by a Contributor License Agreement. You (or your employer) retain the copyright to your contribution; this simply gives us permission to use and redistribute your contributions as part of the project. Head over to <https://cla.developers.google.com/> to see your current agreements on file or to sign a new one.

You generally only need to submit a CLA once, so if you've already submitted one (even if it was for a different project), you probably don't need to do it again.

## Code Reviews

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult
[GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more information on using pull requests.

## Commit messages

This repository uses [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/), therefore every commit and PR must follow naming convention. We require commit header to be in form `<type>(<scope>): [#issue_number] - <subject>`, where `type`, `scope` and
`subject` as defined in  [angular commit message convention](https://github.com/angular/angular.js/blob/master/DEVELOPERS.md#type). `#issue_number` is optional, if commit resolves any gihub issue.

Please be aware that new release will be triggered for:
* `feat` - minor release
* `perf/fix` - patch release

where minor/patch as in semantic versioning definition.

## Contributor Guide

Aside from the above administrative requirements, you can find more
technical details about project internals in the
[contributor guide](https://metacontroller.app/contrib/).
